README.md, before:

![Memestash (NodeJS Backend)](./markdown/memestash_node.png)

---

Welcome to the MemeStash NodeJS Back-End. This application can be used in combination with one of the 2 MemeStash clients
in order to provide them with data.

## Setup
This repo comes included with a `docker-compose.yaml` file. With this, you can easily set up a working database for this repo:

### Prerequisites
- Make sure that you're able to run docker containers. [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) is an easy-to-use client to run containers on your host machine.
- Make sure that the following ports aren't used by any programs on your host machine *(**Tip**: If you're not sure, you can run the following command in a Windows CLI in order to check: `netstat -ano | findstr <portnumber>`)*
    - 3306 *(This is the port used by MariaDB)*
    - 8080 *(This is a port reserved for Admirer, a web interface for MariaDB)*
    
### Installation process
1. Clone this project using `git clone`
2. Open a terminal in the cloned directory
3. Run the following command: `docker-compose up -d`. This will run the containers in **detached mode**, so that you're able to keep using your CLI.
4. Connect to the database using Admirer or your GUI tool of choice:
    - **Host**: localhost
    - **Port**: 3306
    - **Username**: root
    - **Password**: Friday13th!
5. Run the `db-structure.sql` and `db-filler.sql`.
6. Run `npm install` 

That's it! The database should be configured and all the needed users and their permissions should be made. You can run the server by typing `npm run server` in a CLI *(**Note:** Make sure you're in the cloned directory)*

## Features
### Documentation
You can explore the API with Swagger documentation by entering `<host address>/spec`, *e.g. [`localhost:8888/spec`](http://localhost:8888/spec)*
### Encryption
All password are encrypted using BCrypt encryption package. if you wish to manually encrypt a password, you can do this by using the following command:
```powershell
    npm run encrypt <string>
```
These hashes will then be export to a text file in the `export` directory.
### Console
The console will display the following things during its lifetime:
- Configuration information *(Like port configuration, etc...)*
- Unsuccessful requests
### Validation & Error Handling
URL, Parameter & Body validation is done with [Express OpenAPI Validator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express-openapi-validator), which uses the OpenAPI spec sheet to check requests.

All error returns have been standardized and are using Express's error handling in order to return the right data.
### Push Notifications
Users can register for receiving push notifications with the server's public key ( Received from `GET /push/public`) 
and the subscription block by sending it to `POST /push/{ouid}` endpoint.

Everytime a user buys a card, they'll get a notification from the sever 
### API Spec
The base url is `<host address>:<port>/api`
#### Users
|HTTP Verb|Endpoint|Description|Stage?|
|---|---|---|---|
|GET|`/users`|Retrieves a list of all users and info about them. Can be filtered with query parameters.| Implemented |
|GET|`/users/{ouid}`|This endpoint gets all the information of a user to be able to construct the homepage. This includes things like cards, name, wallet, etc...|Implemented|
|PUT|`/users`|This endpoint will add a new user account to the application.|Implemented|
|PATCH|`/users/{ouid}`|This endpoint is used in order to change account information of the user (Such as the account’s email).|Mock|
|POST|`/users/login`|This endpoint is responsible for authenticating a user.|N/A|
#### Cards
|HTTP Verb|Endpoint|Description|Stage?|
|---|---|---|---|
|GET|`/cards`|Gets all the cards registered in the system. Can be filtered using query parameters.|Implemented|
|GET|`/users/{ouid}/cards`|Gets the collection of cards of a user, identified by his id.|Implemented|
|PUT|`/users/{ouid}/cards/{cid}`|This endpoint is responsible for adding a card to the user’s collection. The price needs to be supplied in order to subtract it from the user’s wallet.|Implemented|
#### Chats
|HTTP Verb|Endpoint|Description|Stage?|
|---|---|---|---|
|GET|`/users/{ouid}/chats`|This endpoint is used to retrieve the messages of a user.|Mock|
|GET|`/users/{ouid}/chats/{tuid}`|This endpoint will retrieve the chat between the user with the `ouid` and the user with the `tuid`.|Mock|
|PATCH|`/users/{ouid}/chats/{tuid}`|This endpoint will add another message to the message queue between the user with the associated `ouid` and the user with the associated `tuid`.|Mock|
|PUT|`/users/{ouid}/cards/{cid}`|This endpoint will start a message queue between 2 users. A initial message needs to be supplied with the request before a message queue is made.|Mock|
#### Wallet
|HTTP Verb|Endpoint|Description|Stage?|
|---|---|---|---|
|PUT|`/users/{ouid}/wallet`|Adds a new amount of coins to the wallet.|Mock|
#### Push Messages
|HTTP Verb|Endpoint|Description|Stage?|
|---|---|---|---|
|GET|`/push/public`|Get's the public key for push messages|Implemented|
|POST|`/push/{ouid}`|Registers the user for push notifications|Implemented|
## Directory Structure
```
.
├── app -> Contains all the NodeJS application files
│   ├── config -> Contains configuration files for the application
│   │   ├── database.js
│   │   └── ws.js
│   ├── data -> Data layer of the App
│   │   ├── routes -> Contains all routes of the App
│   │   │   ├── authRouter.js
│   │   │   ├── cardRouter.js
│   │   │   ├── chatRouter.js
│   │   │   ├── userCardsRouter.js
│   │   │   └── userRouter.js
│   │   ├── statements.js -> Contains all statements used by the application
│   │   └── util -> Additional files that give extra functionality
│   │       ├── mysql.js -> File that transforms DB Call to One-liner
│   │       └── wrappers.js -> File that contains custom JSON responses
│   ├── encrypt.js
│   ├── errors -> Contains files for handling errors
│   │   ├── errorHandlers.js
│   │   └── error.js
│   ├── main.js -> Main startup file of the application
│   ├── mock.js -> File that contains temporary mock data
│   └── openapi.yaml -> OpenAPI Spec Sheet
├── db -> Contains files used to fill & construct the DB
├── export -> Contains the text file with password hashes
│   ├── db_fill.sql
│   └── db_structure.sql
├── docker-compose.yaml -> File used in order to construct the database.
├── markdown -> Contains files used in this README.md
│   └── memestash_node.png
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
└── README.md
```
### `Data` routers
- The statement used for the database are contained in `statement.js`
- The actual routes are within the `routes` directory.
- `util` contains utility files that provide additional functionality

## FAQ
**Q:** The node scripts don't run! <br>
**A:** You might have to run `npm run` in order to discover the scripts. If that doesn't solve the problem, double check if you're in the root directory. <br>
Alternatively, you can invoke the file if needed:
- `npm run server` => `node ./app/main.js`
- `npm run encrypt <string>` => `node ./app/encrypt.js -i <string>`

Commit message:

Added Video in README.md

README.md, after:

![Memestash (NodeJS Backend)](./markdown/memestash_node.png)

---

Welcome to the MemeStash NodeJS Back-End. This application can be used in combination with one of the 2 MemeStash clients
in order to provide them with data.

## Video
Here you can watch the video about the project:

[![Memestash Presentation Video](http://img.youtube.com/vi/y0Q6Cn6_y0s/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y0Q6Cn6_y0s "Memestash Presentation Video")

*If the embedded video player doesn't work, you can still visit the video with this [link](https://youtu.be/y0Q6Cn6_y0s)*

## Setup
This repo comes included with a `docker-compose.yaml` file. With this, you can easily set up a working database for this repo:

### Prerequisites
- Make sure that you're able to run docker containers. [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) is an easy-to-use client to run containers on your host machine.
- Make sure that the following ports aren't used by any programs on your host machine *(**Tip**: If you're not sure, you can run the following command in a Windows CLI in order to check: `netstat -ano | findstr <portnumber>`)*
    - 3306 *(This is the port used by MariaDB)*
    - 8080 *(This is a port reserved for Admirer, a web interface for MariaDB)*
    
### Installation process
1. Clone this project using `git clone`
2. Open a terminal in the cloned directory
3. Run the following command: `docker-compose up -d`. This will run the containers in **detached mode**, so that you're able to keep using your CLI.
4. Connect to the database using Admirer or your GUI tool of choice:
    - **Host**: localhost
    - **Port**: 3306
    - **Username**: root
    - **Password**: Friday13th!
5. Run the `db-structure.sql` and `db-filler.sql`.
6. Run `npm install` 

That's it! The database should be configured and all the needed users and their permissions should be made. You can run the server by typing `npm run server` in a CLI *(**Note:** Make sure you're in the cloned directory)*

## Features
### Documentation
You can explore the API with Swagger documentation by entering `<host address>/spec`, *e.g. [`localhost:8888/spec`](http://localhost:8888/spec)*
### Encryption
All password are encrypted using BCrypt encryption package. if you wish to manually encrypt a password, you can do this by using the following command:
```powershell
    npm run encrypt <string>
```
These hashes will then be export to a text file in the `export` directory.
### Console
The console will display the following things during its lifetime:
- Configuration information *(Like port configuration, etc...)*
- Unsuccessful requests
### Validation & Error Handling
URL, Parameter & Body validation is done with [Express OpenAPI Validator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express-openapi-validator), which uses the OpenAPI spec sheet to check requests.

All error returns have been standardized and are using Express's error handling in order to return the right data.
### Push Notifications
Users can register for receiving push notifications with the server's public key ( Received from `GET /push/public`) 
and the subscription block by sending it to `POST /push/{ouid}` endpoint.

Everytime a user buys a card, they'll get a notification from the sever 
### API Spec
The base url is `<host address>:<port>/api`
#### Users
|HTTP Verb|Endpoint|Description|Stage?|
|---|---|---|---|
|GET|`/users`|Retrieves a list of all users and info about them. Can be filtered with query parameters.| Implemented |
|GET|`/users/{ouid}`|This endpoint gets all the information of a user to be able to construct the homepage. This includes things like cards, name, wallet, etc...|Implemented|
|PUT|`/users`|This endpoint will add a new user account to the application.|Implemented|
|PATCH|`/users/{ouid}`|This endpoint is used in order to change account information of the user (Such as the account’s email).|Mock|
|POST|`/users/login`|This endpoint is responsible for authenticating a user.|N/A|
#### Cards
|HTTP Verb|Endpoint|Description|Stage?|
|---|---|---|---|
|GET|`/cards`|Gets all the cards registered in the system. Can be filtered using query parameters.|Implemented|
|GET|`/users/{ouid}/cards`|Gets the collection of cards of a user, identified by his id.|Implemented|
|PUT|`/users/{ouid}/cards/{cid}`|This endpoint is responsible for adding a card to the user’s collection. The price needs to be supplied in order to subtract it from the user’s wallet.|Implemented|
#### Chats
|HTTP Verb|Endpoint|Description|Stage?|
|---|---|---|---|
|GET|`/users/{ouid}/chats`|This endpoint is used to retrieve the messages of a user.|Mock|
|GET|`/users/{ouid}/chats/{tuid}`|This endpoint will retrieve the chat between the user with the `ouid` and the user with the `tuid`.|Mock|
|PATCH|`/users/{ouid}/chats/{tuid}`|This endpoint will add another message to the message queue between the user with the associated `ouid` and the user with the associated `tuid`.|Mock|
|PUT|`/users/{ouid}/cards/{cid}`|This endpoint will start a message queue between 2 users. A initial message needs to be supplied with the request before a message queue is made.|Mock|
#### Wallet
|HTTP Verb|Endpoint|Description|Stage?|
|---|---|---|---|
|PUT|`/users/{ouid}/wallet`|Adds a new amount of coins to the wallet.|Mock|
#### Push Messages
|HTTP Verb|Endpoint|Description|Stage?|
|---|---|---|---|
|GET|`/push/public`|Get's the public key for push messages|Implemented|
|POST|`/push/{ouid}`|Registers the user for push notifications|Implemented|
## Directory Structure
```
.
├── app -> Contains all the NodeJS application files
│   ├── config -> Contains configuration files for the application
│   │   ├── database.js
│   │   └── ws.js
│   ├── data -> Data layer of the App
│   │   ├── routes -> Contains all routes of the App
│   │   │   ├── authRouter.js
│   │   │   ├── cardRouter.js
│   │   │   ├── chatRouter.js
│   │   │   ├── userCardsRouter.js
│   │   │   └── userRouter.js
│   │   ├── statements.js -> Contains all statements used by the application
│   │   └── util -> Additional files that give extra functionality
│   │       ├── mysql.js -> File that transforms DB Call to One-liner
│   │       └── wrappers.js -> File that contains custom JSON responses
│   ├── encrypt.js
│   ├── errors -> Contains files for handling errors
│   │   ├── errorHandlers.js
│   │   └── error.js
│   ├── main.js -> Main startup file of the application
│   ├── mock.js -> File that contains temporary mock data
│   └── openapi.yaml -> OpenAPI Spec Sheet
├── db -> Contains files used to fill & construct the DB
├── export -> Contains the text file with password hashes
│   ├── db_fill.sql
│   └── db_structure.sql
├── docker-compose.yaml -> File used in order to construct the database.
├── markdown -> Contains files used in this README.md
│   └── memestash_node.png
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
└── README.md
```
### `Data` routers
- The statement used for the database are contained in `statement.js`
- The actual routes are within the `routes` directory.
- `util` contains utility files that provide additional functionality

## FAQ
**Q:** The node scripts don't run! <br>
**A:** You might have to run `npm run` in order to discover the scripts. If that doesn't solve the problem, double check if you're in the root directory. <br>
Alternatively, you can invoke the file if needed:
- `npm run server` => `node ./app/main.js`
- `npm run encrypt <string>` => `node ./app/encrypt.js -i <string>`
